Hi everyone.
Today we will start the section eight control Flow loops and we will start by learning while loops with
the while loop, we can execute a set of statements as long as a condition is true here.
In this example, while I less than seven print, I just note remember to increment I or else the loop
will continue forever.
With the break statement, we can stop the loop even if the while condition is true.
Here the condition that I is less than seven.
But if I equal three, we will use the statement break and will exit the loop.
With the continue statement.
We can stop the current iteration and continue with the next here, while if I equal three, I will
continue to the next iteration and I will not print three.
We just see that else statement used with the if statement, but also it can be used with while loop.
When this condition is not verified, we will pass to the else statement.
Let's go to PyCharm and run some code.
Here I execute the debugger mode.
I take the value one here while I less than seven I continue to print I.
Let's execute.
I take 1234.
Six.
In the console I just.
Print the value six.
In the next iteration, the condition will not be verified and will exit the loop.
Okay, let's execute the second example the break statement.
I continue the execution.
I take one next?
I take two.
I take three.
If I equal three, we will execute the statement break.
And in this case, we will exit from the while we just print until the value three and we will pass
to the next example.
The continue statement.
I take the value zero.
Let's execute.
I take the value one.
Take the value two.
Take the value three.
The condition is verified.
We'll continue.
Will pass to the line.
Continue.
We will not print.
We will not execute this line.
We will pass to the next iteration.
Will print four.
We don't print the line.
The index three because we used the keyword.
Continue.
Let's continue the execution of code.
And the last example the else statement.
We will execute this line of code.
When this condition is not more available.
I continue to print until I take the value seven.
I take the value six.
The condition is not verified and we will execute the else statement.
I is no longer less than seven.
In the next video we will see how to use the for loop.
And that's it for this video.